Hi guys and welcome to the third step of this implementation about data processing so data processing
is definitely not the most exciting part in our implementation but that's something we always have to
do especially before building a new network because indeed you have to pre process the data in order
to set it in the right format.
Expected by your new network.
And so here the data processing phase will consist of first loading the data set then normalizing the
images then reshaping the data set you know into this one vector format that is expected by a fully
connected new network as explained in the previous tutorial.
And then that's it.
We just want to set the right format.
Expected by the new network.
So let's do this let's see each of these sections one by one starting with loading the data set.
And so here.
Well we're lucky to have this fashion next module by carers because indeed it contains this low data
function which will allow us to get directly the training set and the test set of the whole dataset.
You know 60000 images in the training set and 10000 images in the test.
So right now what's important to understand is that at this stage when we import the training set and
it test this way.
Well these are the images you know extra and contains 60000 2d arrays you know containing all the pixels
of the images.
And same for access it contains 10000 2d arrays containing the pixels of the images.
And of course why train.
Are the classes meaning the targets of the training set.
And why test are the classes the targets of the test set.
So right now no reshaping you know with this vector of 784 pixels has been created.
That's what we'll do in a further code section.
So basically at this stage we just import the images and there are targets in other classes Darling
which close is each image.
So when you execute this cell then you get this which basically downloads all the data.
And then here we go for the next step in the very real First Data Processing step which is about normalizing
the images.
So indeed when working with new networks we always have or it is always highly recommended to normalize
your inputs.
Why is this.
Simply because by normalizing your inputs Well your new network will trend faster.
Right.
I specify this here by normalizing images.
We make sure that our model and then trains faster.
And so here very simply to normalize the image as well since each pixel of the image is a value between
0 and 255.
Well the simple way to normalize the images is to divide each of their pixels by the maximum number
of pixel which is 255.
And that's why here we do a simple tensor operation as seen in the previous section which simply consists
of dividing your tensor.
So extra an index test by two hundred and fifty five and point zero because we're doing a float operation
right.
And so you know this will divide each value inside the cells of your tensor is by 255.
Therefore putting all the pixels of your images between 0 and 1 and eventually normalizing the images.
Right so very very simple you'll see that many many times when doing deep learning for image classification
or you know for a computer vision you will always see this simple operation dividing your pixels by
the maximum 255 that we're putting all the pixels between 0 and 1.
All right so very simple so far.
Now next step step you know next data processing step which is about reshaping the data sets so that's
where we will really set the input of the new network into the right format.
Expected by that neural network.
And so what do we have to do.
Well remember that X train contains the sixty thousand images meaning it's actually a 3D tensor where
the first dimension gives the index of the images you know telling which image it is.
And then the other two dimensions are the dimensions of the arrays which contain the pixels of the images.
And so what we want to do now is flatten basically every image meaning we're going to transform each
of the two the arrays in exchange of each of the 60000 to the arrays in exchange into sixty thousand
one day vectors by flattening all the pixels into a single one vector and we will do that through reshape
but just to make sure you understand what we'll get after this reshape.
We actually have it right here.
We will get it to the array you know before it was a 3D array but this time we'll get it to the array
where the first dimension will be the same first dimension as an extreme meaning the dimension that
gives the index of the image you know just to tell which row corresponds to the image.
And then the second dimension will be that produced single vector containing all the pixels of each
image and therefore in this to the array that we're about to get.
Well each row well corresponds to a limit.
And inside the row the columns will contain all the pixels of that image.
All right.
So helps you visualize as well.
Basically we just keep the same first dimension of the image but we transform all the 2d arrays in X
train into one dimensional vectors.
And the way we do this is by using the reshape function taken from X train which will return the reshaped
X train.
And inside this reshape function we have to input two arguments.
First is minus one year which says that we want to reshape all the images in extremely we want to take
all the elements in the first dimension of extreme which is corresponds to the images.
No they're indexes.
And the second element here 28 by 28 is of course how many columns we want to get in that new X strain
and since we actually want to get all the pixels into the columns.
Well since we have 28 times 28 pixels in each image and we want to flatten all these pixels into one
the horizontal vectors as well you'll get 28 by 28 columns to receive the 28 times 28 pixels.
And that's why here.
By reshaping into a 2D array of 60000 rows.
Because here we specify minus 1 and 28 by 28 columns.
Well we'll exactly get what we want.
Meaning add to the array with all the rows corresponding to the images and all the columns corresponding
to the pixels of these images.
Right.
And then each image of this to the array or you know some batch of images taken from this to the array
will enter the new network and will be accepted by it because they will be in the right format after
which you know there will be four propagated to get the final predictions.
All right.
And then we do the same reshape for the test set.
Here it is.
And that's of course because then you know we'll use the test set to evaluate our model and see which
final accuracy we get.
Okay.
So there we go.
Congrats.
We did the little boring phase data processing and now good news we can move on to the exciting step
exciting phase which is about building the artificial new network and that's where tend to flow 2.0
comes into play.